[RED - Robot Editor User Guide](..\\..\\index.md) > [User
guide](..\\user_guide.md) > [Launching Tests](..\\launching.md) >

## Remotely launched tests

When **Robot Remote** launch configuration is launched, it setups a simple
server inside RED instance and listens execution events from remote
TestRunnerAgent which runs Robot tests on remote host.

## Remote launch configuration

Open `[ Run -> Run
Configurations...](javascript:executeCommand\('org.eclipse.debug.ui.commands.OpenRunConfigurations'\))`
dialog and under **Robot Remote** create new configuration. The configuration
itself is rather simple and consists mainly of network-related settings:

![](images/remote_config.png)

  * **Project** \- here the project needs to be specified. The project is used when running in **debug** mode in order to locate sources for which breakpoints are checked, 
  * **Local IP** \- IP address which will be used by server,
  * **Local port** \- port number which will be used by server,
  * **Connection timeout** \- how long the server will wait for connection (in seconds).

## Launching tests

Once remote configuration is launched the server will report it in **Console**
view:

![](images/remote_console.png)

after that the tests can be launched. Refer to [ Starting test
execution](http://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/RobotFrameworkUserGuide.html
#starting-test-execution) chapter in RobotFramework user guide for detailed
description about launching Robot tests. For RED it is only important that the
[agent script](red_agent.md) is injected into execution using `--listener`
argument. Without it RED will not be able to obtain any data from running
tests, thus **Execution** view, **Message Log** view and **debugging** will
not work - simply the server will shut down after specified timeout has passed
as no client have connected.

The agent script can be exported from **Remote Launch Configuration** dialog
using **Export Client Script** button visible on image above. From the same
dialog you can copy command line argument which has to be used when launching
tests. It may be required to provide whole absolute path to agent script
depending on the location it was exported and location from which the tests
are executed. Refer to [detailed agent
usage](red_agent.html#command_line_usage) description for all options used by
agent.

In simplest case following command line call would start Robot with injected
agent, which will try to connect to RED server running on `localhost` at port
`12345` and will send data needed by RED:

` python -m robot.run --listener
/LOCATION_TO_AGENT_FILE/TestRunnerAgent.py:127.0.0.1:12345 TEST_LOCATION `

## Debugging remote launches

Remote debug allows to perform debug activities with RED using remote host to
execute tests and get debug information back to RED. It is especially useful
when Robot tests are executed on dedicated test line with hardware/software
under test or in cloud environment where test editing and test execution is
separated. **Robot Remote** configuration needs to be launched in **debug**
mode. Apart from that debugging is no different from [local debug](debug.md)
\- remember to set at least one breakpoint prior the debug run.

## Possible issues

When having problem with running/debugging Remote configurations, please
double check following:

  * check if remote host can connect to local host (routing, firewalls), 
  * check network settings in configurations (Port/IP) and in agent command line parameters, 
  * check if you have the same test material locally and remotely (exact same test cases, test names). 
  
  

